Problem Set 05
================

Chapter 2 exercises 9, 13, 16, 18, 20

## Additional practice

Let’s return one last time to the MythBusters data set.

``` r
library(oilabs)
data(yawn)
```

Instead of looking at the *null distribution* of a test statistic
(either the number of people in the unseeded group that yawned or the
difference in proportions), we’ll look at a bunch of visualizations of
the actual data that was generated under the null hypothesis.

A. Using `infer`, generate 12 data sets from `yawn` under the null
hypothesis that the two variables are independent of one another.

B. Create a 4 by 3 grid of plots, each one visualizing the relationship
between the two variables. For this, add a `facet_wrap()` layer, which
can be read about
[here](https://ggplot2.tidyverse.org/reference/facet_wrap.html).

C. Create an additional single plot of the *actual* `yawn` data.

D. Does the actual data look very similar to or very different from the
data that was generated under the null hypothesis of independence?

### Notes

  - For 2.9.c, please instead provide the `infer()` code that could
    perform the simulation. This won’t be real runable code (set the
    chunk option `eval = FALSE`), so just throw down sensible names for
    the data frame, the variables, and the levels of the variables.
  - Some exercises ask that you draw a picture of the normal curve and
    shade the relevant probability. You can do so by adapting the
    following code.

<!-- end list -->

``` r
library(tidyverse)
data.frame(x = c(-3, 3)) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x)) +
  geom_area(stat = "function", fun = dnorm, 
            fill = "#00998a", xlim = c(-3, 0)) +
  geom_area(stat = "function", fun = dnorm, 
            fill = "grey80", xlim = c(0, 3)) +
  theme_bw()
```

To adjust this to your use tinker around with the xlim argument in
`geom_area()` to figure out what it’s doing.
