Problem Set 06
================

## Part I: Thoughtful Visualization

In addition to considerations around mapping variabilies to aesthetics
and selecting an effective geometry, there are many other things we need
to take into account when crafting thoughtful visualizations. Please
carefully read through this post discussing recommendations for
visualizing data related to
COVID-19.

<https://medium.com/nightingale/ten-considerations-before-you-create-another-chart-about-covid-19-27d3bd691be8>

## Exercise 1

Which two of the authors ten recommendations do you think are the most
important? Why?

## Exercise 2

Given the recommendations made in the article, please provide an example
of a carefully constructed visualization related to COVID-19 and, in a
few sentences, describe why it is so well-done. Please provide a link to
the article as well as the image itself. To embed an image in an RMD
file, use add an R chunk that looks like this:

``` r
knitr::include_graphics("path/to/image.png")
```

Where the path in the quotations can either be a url to the image online
or a path to the image on your RStudio server (if going this route,
you’ll need to download the image to your local computer, then upload
it to server using the “Upload” button in the “Files” pane, then provide
a path from your .Rmd file to that image.) You can control the size of
the image by adding the following chunk option: `out.width = "400px"`.

## Exercise 3

Repeat the exercise above, but do so for an example of an irresponsibly
done visualization.

## Part II: DataCamp

For this problem set, we will be working through one chapter in one
course on DataCamp. This is a handy tool to help reinforce some of the
concepts that we discuss in lecture by letting you work through
exercises in an R environment. Check in on Slack within a day or so for
information related to your DataCamp account and the specifics of the
assignment.
