Problem Set 07
================

## Part I: OpenIntro

Chapter 5 exercises 19, 30, 32

## Part II: Non-pharmaceutical Interventions and Influenza 1918-1919

Begin by reading the following blog
post:

<https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2020/03/what-worked-in-1918-1919.html>

Then access the original paper that seeded this post, which was
published in the Journal of the American Medical Association:

<https://biotech.law.lsu.edu/blog/joc70085_644_654.pdf>

1.  What were the objectives of the study? Write this in a jargon-free
    way that a family member could understand.

2.  For the main data set, featured in Table 1, what is the unit of
    observation?

3.  What type of data is each of the variables? Think carefully about
    this one: this contains data types that we haven’t explicitly
    discussed in class.

4.  Read the descriptions of the various response and explanatory
    variables that are featured in figure 1. Which set seem to you to
    best capture what we’re interested in here: a sense of the safety
    measures taken by the city and the effect it had on public health.

5.  Of the four relationships shown in figure 1, which one is strongest?
    How can you tell?

6.  While we can make predictions off of any regression line, in order
    to perform inference accurately, we need our mathematical
    assumptions to be reasonable. Do you have reservations about the
    accuracy of inference in any of these four settings?

7.  Write out the null hypothesis corresponding the p-values listed in
    these plots.

8.  Two cities, highlighted in blue, are what the authors flag as
    “outliers”. If they were removed, which of the correlations and
    p-values do you expect would change the most? Which would be most
    unaffected?
